# SE-Project 1 - Essay (Team Number - 25) 

The MovieRecommender web application, hosted on the GitHub repository (https://github.com/git-ankit/MovieRecommender/tree/master), is a promising tool that offers movie recommendations to users based on their preferences with a mission to reduce the time spent searching for likable movies. To do so, the project has used the following tech stack - Python, Flask, HTML5, CSS, and Vanilla JavaScript along with Collaborative Filtering techniques (content, user, item) for the prediction purpose. While we liked the functionality of their system, our extensive evaluation and brainstorming revealed several areas of concern and enhancement ideas that could be worked upon, particularly from the standpoint of user experience and the quality of the code.

Firstly, we found the installation process to be blocked by the presence of deprecated library versions in the ‘requirements.txt’ file for major libraries such as ‘numpy’. This issue could potentially hinder developers from successfully installing and running the application server. To address this, we took immediate action by updating all required libraries to their latest versions during the creation of the development environment for this repository in our local systems. This adjustment ensures that developers can install the application without facing version-related compatibility issues in the preliminary setup during the installation process.

Secondly, we observed that the overall quality of the code (readability and cleanliness) was not that good. For instance, there were redundant variables that were never used. Since, good coding practices are necessary for maintaining a codebase that everyone can easily understand, maintain and collaborate on. Thus, as part of the next phase, we would do a comprehensive code review and restructuring process. This would include adhering to proper variable naming, and providing clear documentation and comments in the code. Such improvements will help in creating a much more readable and maintainable codebase for future collaboration.

Furthermore, effective use of visual hierarchy is important in guiding users' attention to elements and actions within a given interface. It makes the users prioritize information and actions, thereby improving the holistic user experience. In the context of the MovieRecommender web application, we encountered an ambiguity in the search box operation which requires the user to input a minimum of two letters to trigger the dropdown menu. This limitation/necessity was not published or intended on the web page, which could potentially confuse the user and leave them questioning whether the search box feature functionality is working correctly or not. In addition to this, duplicate movie selections for prediction gave no movie recommendations. We also see a ValueError in the server logs as there is a ‘dot product shape mismatch’. Apart from the search box issues, we noticed that if we click the predict button again, the web app simply appends a copy of the previously predicted movies to the new prediction. Thereby, leading to redundancy and a bad-user experience. In continuation to this, we also observed that if we don’t give feedback (Like, Yet to Watch, Dislike) to all the predicted movies the system doesn’t submit the feedback but it also doesn’t provide any sort of error message! Thus, by upgrading the layout of the landing page and emphasizing a structured flow of control, we can make it easier for users to navigate and interact with the application.

Adding to the list of pain points is the current design of displaying predicted movies in a single column. This makes most of the screen empty and requires a lot of scrolling to view the recommendations and provide feedback. We can improve user experience by making the design more compact using a grid or multiple columns efficiently using the available screen space. To this end, we propose a user interface redesign that focuses on enhancing visual hierarchy, including the use of appropriate colour schemes for visual appeal and a structured flow for users to follow. Through these implementations, we aim to make the MovieRecommender application more user-centric. 

In the backdrop of the deployment environment, one critical issue we encountered was finding the Flask debug flag set to true. In a production setting, debug mode should not be enabled because execution speed could drop causing performance degradation. There is an additional risk of unreliable security. While running the application, it became apparent that there was substantial latency and low responsiveness. Thorough testing of the production environment should be conducted to catch any such issues before they become live. We would like to ensure there are different configurations for development and production environments to improve latency and overall usability. 
				
Finally, in conclusion, the MovieRecommender system is surely a potential solution to the movie-searching dilemma, making it a valuable tool. However, we feel that the above-proposed improvements, such as refining the visual hierarchy (UI), updating deprecated libraries, enhancing code readability, and addressing usability issues, will contribute to a more polished and effective MovieRecommender application. The commitment to good coding practices ensures that the codebase remains manageable and maintainable. These enhancements not only benefit existing users but also make the application more inviting for potential contributors and collaborators.

# Working Demo of the Project: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oznnPnuVm6U

